Flight Delays

Business Scenario
Flight delays can decrease customer loyalty, have financial penalties and disrupt business. Understanding contributing factors, root causes and trends can be useful to airline carriers to improve execution

Specific Questions asked by the capstone project
What are the opportunities to clean up the data?
Are there any natural primary and foeign keys or will we need to create and maintain them?
Are there any inconsistencies in the relationshps between the natural or surrogate keys?
What are the measures that you will need to create to support the aggregate calculations?


-----------------------------August 11 2022-------------------------

Questions to be answered:

 1. Does location of Airport (i.e. major hub, larger city contribute to more flight delays, ,higher volume of flights)?
 2.Is there a connection between airplane type and being able to make up time once in the air ( I.e. do lighter planes or smaller planes have an easier time making their time up in regards to speed)

Hypothesis:

1. Smaller airport locations will experience more delays  and while we don't have the data to back this up in this data set, i believe the contributing factor is that in smaller areas you may have less people qualified to fill in for staffing gaps. 
Now from this data what I can say is that we will see the smaller airports in general will have more delays.

2. I believe that larger planes or equipment styles will have a harder time making up time in the air and we should be able to see this common trend across certain equipment types.

-------- offshoot statement made by the capstone project----------------

 Flight delays can decrease customer loyalty, have financial penalties and disrupt business. Understanding contributing factors, root causes and trends can be useful to airline carriers to improve execution

      **** we will not be able to tie customer loyalty, for the financial penalties aspect to this report because the data to review this type of information has not been provided****                  
                        
--------------Questions that are relevant------------ 
1. How can i decode the delay codes so that I can uncover more about why planes are delayed within this data set

-----------------------------hypothesis statement. 
 I cannot make a statement at this time, I am still combing through and trying to digest the data.
 From what I currently know I can say that the issues must be quantifiable by either location,equipment type, weather
